Douglas Keller Jr.

Appart. 129, 12 Mail Pierre Potier
Gif-sur-Yvette, 91190, France
H +1 (907) 342 2070
B dg.kllr.jr@gmail.com; dkeller12@alaska.edu
Í www.alaskanresearcher.org
dg-kllr-jr
dkllrjr
AK_Researcher

Education
Fall 2019 – Doctorate of Philosophy: Physics, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, École PolyExpected Fall technique, Palaiseau, Île-de-France, France.
2022
Fall 2017 – Master of Science: Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering and Mines,
Fall 2018 University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
GPA: 4.0/4.0

Fall 2014 – Bachelor of Science: Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering and Mines,
Fall 2018 University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
GPA: 3.8/4.0

Research Experience
Fall 2017 – Master of Science Thesis, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Fall 2018 (In collaboration with and funded by NASA’s Armstrong Fight Research Center)
Determined the effect of electromagnetic interference from electric motors on load sensing
strain gauges.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Placed NASA’s Fiber Optic Sensing System (FOSS) and conventional strain gauge
systems in high electromagnetic interference environments found in aviation
{ Developed a load cell designed around the FOSS to measure thrust from an electric
motor coupled with a 3-blade propeller to develop future electric propulsion systems
{ Analyzed and compared data retrieved using the FOSS and conventional strain gauges
{ Determined the effect of electromagnetic interference on the thrust loading measurements
{ Determined the effect of mechanical interference/vibration with both systems in the same
test application

Fall 2017 – Alaska Space Grant Undergraduate Research Fellowship, Geophysical Institute,
Summer 2018 University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Studied the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) with NASA’s network of micro-pulse lidars
(MPLNET).
Highlighted achievements:
{ Used the MPLNET and radiosonde data to determine the intraday variability of the high
latitude atmospheric boundary layer
{ Developed algorithms to determine atmospheric boundary layer structural parameters
from the MPLNET profiles
{ Compared and contrasted collocated lidar and radiosonde retrievals of ABL parameters
{ Produced statistical estimates of ABL parameters and computed diurnal and seasonal
variations
{ Analyzed the high latitude ABL with the MPLNET, radiosonde data, and global positioning
system radio occultation (GPSRO)

Fall 2016 Raman Spectroscopy Lidar, Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks,
Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
(Funded by the National Science Foundation)
Assisted with the setup of a Raman spectroscopy lidar and developed mechanical fixtures
for application.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Gained experience in optomechanical design for Lidar development
{ Developed simulation of Lidar signals to condition instrument design for 532 nm, N2,
and H2O Raman vibrational bands
{ Implemented multichannel Lidar receiver

Vocational Experience
Summer 2019 Temporary Research Technician, Alaska Center for Energy and Power, University
– Fall 2019 of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Performing data analytics and large data organization for Alaska Center for Energy and
Power’s (ACEP) fuel meter project.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Developed large data analysis methods for the ACEP fuel meter project
{ Created data visualization methods for different temporal representations

Spring 2019 – Temporary Research Technician, Alaska Center for Energy and Power, University
Summer 2019 of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Rewriting the Alaska Center for Energy and Power’s (ACEP) Energy Technology Facility’s
(ETF) safety manual.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Determining the job hazards and required training to safely perform experiments in the
ETF
{ Adjusting the emergency action plan of ETF to more effectively transfer ETF’s emergency
systems

Spring 2017 – Teaching Assistant, College of Engineering and Mines, University of Alaska FairFall 2018 banks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Graded homework and exams, and assisted students with studies in engineering.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Graded homework and exams for the courses on Mechanics of Materials, Instrumentation
and Measurement, and Heat Transfer
{ Recorded lectures for Astrodynamics and Mechanical Vibration

Summer 2017 Mechanical Engineering Intern, NASA Armstrong Flight Research Center, Edwards,
California, USA.
Tested thermodynamics and heat transfer of the initial Fiber Optic Sensing System (FOSS)
enclosure concept for the Quiet Supersonic Technology (QueSST) X-Plane (now the X-59).
Highlighted achievements:
{ Researched heat transfer technologies for FOSS enclosure flight testing application such
as heat pipes and thermoelectric coolers
{ Analyzed heat transfer methods for FOSS enclosure application including foam insulation
{ Designed prototype enclosure for FOSS components, utilizing analyzed methods features
foam insulation and heat pipes for improved high temperature environment survivability

Summer 2015 Engineering Intern, Alaska Department of Transportation, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Determined the compliance of pedestrian facilities in the Fairbanks Borough with the
American Disability Act (ADA).
Highlighted achievements:
{ Measured state maintained pedestrian facilities such as sidewalks and ramps
{ Determined pedestrian facility requirements for ADA compliance including required slope
accommodation for disabled pedestrians
{ Compiled measurement data from multiple interns for coordinator review

Project Experience
Summer 2016 Golf Swing Replicator Prototype, Project Aisle, Spokane, Washington, USA.
Designed and built a golf swing replicating rig.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Designed the golf swing replicator prototype in SolidWorks 2014 with adjustable stand,
ball holder, and swinging mechanism
{ Fabricated the golf swing replicator prototype, utilizing the mill, lathe, and MIG welder
{ Tested and analyzed golf swing replicator prototype

Fall 2014 – Ice Arch Build, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Spring 2015 Part of the construction team that built the winning design for UAF’s 2014 Ice Arch
competition.
Highlighted achievements:
{ Assisted with the construction and setup of the wooden ice molds
{ Assisted with the transportation of water to form the arch
{ Assisted with the erection of the dual ice arch design

Publications
D. Keller, D. R. Eagan, G. J. Fochesatto, R. Peterson. “Advantages of Fiber Bragg Gratings
for Measuring Electric Motor Loadings in Aerospace Application.” Review of Scientific
Instruments

In Progress
D. Keller, G. J. Fochesatto. “A New Wavelet to Determine the Planetary Boundary Layer
Height from Micro Pulse Lidar Backscatter.”
D. Keller, G. J. Fochesatto. "Identifying the Seasonal Conditions for the Occurrence of
High Latitude Superior Mirages."

Conference Talks
D. Keller, G. J. Fochesatto. "Identifying the Conditions for the Occurrence of High Latitude
Superior Mirages." Light and Color in Nature, Bar Harbor, Maine, USA. July 15, 2019

Conference Proceedings
G. J. Fochesatto, O. Galvez, P. Ristori, D. Keller, and E. L. Fochesatto. “Lidar to Determine
the Fractions of Ice, Liquid and Water Vapor in Polar Tropospheric Cloud.” Proceedings of
the 28th International Laser Radar Conference, Bucharest, Romania. 25-30 June 2017.

Conference Poster Presentations
D. Keller, G. J. Fochesatto. “RAOBs and Micro Pulse Lidar Determination of the Atmospheric Boundary Layer.” Alaska Space Grant Program Annual Symposium, Anchorage,
Alaska, USA. April 20, 2018.
D. Keller, D. Eagan. “FOSS Load Cell.” Undergraduate Research and Scholarly Activity
Research Day, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA. April 10, 2018.
D. Keller, G. J. Fochesatto, Ellsworth Welton, Jasper Lewis, James Campbell, and Sebastian
Stewart. "Methodology for PBL Retrieval Based on NASA MPLNET Datasets." 99th Annual
American Meteorological Society Meeting, Phoenix, Arizona, USA, Jan. 6-10, 2019.

Programming
Languages Python, C/C++, MATLAB, Julia,
Fortran
Platforms and CUDA, Arduino, Raspberry Pi
APIs

Operating Linux, Windows
Systems

Honors and Awards
Spring 2018 Undergraduate Research and Scholarly Activity Award
Fall 2014 – University of Alaska Scholars Award
Spring 2018
Fall 2014 – Alaska Performance Scholarship
Spring 2018
Fall 2016 – NACE International Alaska Section / BP Scholarship
Spring 2017
Spring 2017, Chancellor’s List
Fall 2016,
Spring 2016
Fall 2015, Dean’s List
Spring 2015

Sports
Winter 2017 – Krav Maga Instructor, Alaska Krav Maga & Fitness, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA.
Winter 2018 Taught Krav Maga, Muay Thai, and fitness classes to students at varying levels of skill.
Also trained in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.

Hockey Played hockey competitively until 2014, peaking at the Junior A Tier III level in the
AWHL (now part of the NA3HL). Played intramurals and beer league from then on.
Skiing Skiing downhill and backcountry (with skins and the whole setup for charging steeper
lines).

Hobbies
Other Aerospace and aviation, game development, optics and physics, artificial intelligence,
Interests quantum communication, music, language learning.

References
Javier Fochesatto PhD, Associate Professor of Atmospheric Sciences
317 Akasofu Building, 930 Koyukuk Dr., University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks,
AK 99775
907-474-7602 | gjfochesatto@alaska.edu
Dayne Broderson, Computer and Information Research Scientist
1764 Tanana Lp., University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK 99775
broderson@gmail.com
Paul Bean, Aerospace Technology Engineer
FOSS Lab, NASA Armstrong Flight Research Center, Edwards Air Force Base, CA
93523
661-276-2451 | paul.bean@nasa.gov
Cheng-fu Chen PhD, Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Duckering 349D, 1760 Tanana Lp., University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK
99775
907-474-7265 | cf.chen@alaska.edu

